Edited text of document for clarity (tech writer) (#183)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: explanation/intro-to/security.md

immediate use, your system's security posture will be very important depending
on how it is used after it is deployed. You should always employ a layered
approach to security so that that your system does not rely on a single
point of defense.

## Server security guidance

Given Ubuntu has a wide range of customization options, this introduction cannot 
provide a comprehensive security hardening guide. However, the security of nearly any 
Ubuntu system can be enhanced by implementing certain best practices and security-related 
packages. Our {ref}`security suggestions <security-suggestions>` page outlies those best 
practices and packages. While you may not choose to implement every suggestion -- and 
this list is not exhaustive -- each one can contribute an additional layer of security.

If your Ubuntu setup is more advanced or more complex than others, you may 
need to do more research into your security outlook. There are specific 
packages available for Ubuntu Servers that can provide additional security, and
we suggest some packages in the {ref}`advanced security <advanced-security>` 
section that you might want to investigate. Again, the list in this section

> is not  intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is not intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.
```

on how it is used after it is deployed. You should always employ a layered
approach to security so that that your system does not rely on a single
point of defense.

## Server security guidance

Given Ubuntu has a wide range of customization options, this introduction cannot 
provide a comprehensive security hardening guide. However, the security of nearly any 
Ubuntu system can be enhanced by implementing certain best practices and security-related 
packages. Our {ref}`security suggestions <security-suggestions>` page outlies those best 
practices and packages. While you may not choose to implement every suggestion -- and 
this list is not exhaustive -- each one can contribute an additional layer of security.

If your Ubuntu setup is more advanced or more complex than others, you may 
need to do more research into your security outlook. There are specific 
packages available for Ubuntu Servers that can provide additional security, and
we suggest some packages in the {ref}`advanced security <advanced-security>` 
section that you might want to investigate. Again, the list in this section
is not  intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.

> To read the most thorough treatment of security in Ubuntu, go to the
> [Ubuntu Security documentation](https://ubuntu.com/security).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the most thorough treatment of security in Ubuntu, we also recommend reading the [Ubuntu Security documentation](https://ubuntu.com/security).
```

Reviewer: I missed this the first time around, the original intention of the pointer to the security docs was to provide it as an additional suggestion, but the wording change implies that the user should only look at the security docs (which is not the case, since our security docs are more specific to Server users). I've updated the original wording to incorporate the spirit of your change while also retaining the original intent.

(introduction-to-security)=
# Introduction to security

Security should always be considered when you install, deploy, and use an
Ubuntu system. While a fresh installation of Ubuntu is usually safe for
immediate use, your system's security posture will be very important depending
on how it is used after it is deployed. You should always employ a layered
approach to security so that that your system does not rely on a single
point of defense.

## Server security guidance

Given Ubuntu has a wide range of customization options, this introduction cannot 
provide a comprehensive security hardening guide. However, the security of nearly any 
Ubuntu system can be enhanced by implementing certain best practices and security-related 

> packages. Our {ref}security suggestions <security-suggestions> page outlies those best 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packages. Our {ref}`security suggestions <security-suggestions>` page outlies those best 
```

practices and packages. While you may not choose to implement every suggestion -- and 
this list is not exhaustive -- each one can contribute an additional layer of security.

If your Ubuntu setup is more advanced or more complex than others, you may 
need to do more research into your security outlook. There are specific 
packages available for Ubuntu Servers that can provide additional security, and
we suggest some packages in the {ref}`advanced security <advanced-security>` 
section that you might want to investigate. Again, the list in this section
is not  intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.

To read the most thorough treatment of security in Ubuntu, go to the
[Ubuntu Security documentation](https://ubuntu.com/security).

> When you are considering security for your Ubuntu system, you should
> think about using Canonical's services--Ubuntu Pro, Expanded Security 
> Maintenance, and Livepatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(introduction-to-security)=
# Introduction to security

Security should always be considered when you install, deploy, and use an
Ubuntu system. While a fresh installation of Ubuntu is usually safe for
immediate use, your system's security posture will be very important depending
on how it is used after it is deployed. You should always employ a layered
approach to security so that that your system does not rely on a single
point of defense.

## Server security guidance

Since Ubuntu is endlessly customizable like most Linux distributions, this 
introduction cannot serve as a full guide to security hardening. However, 
you can apply certain good practices and security-related packages to almost
any Ubuntu system. Our {ref}`security suggestions <security-suggestions>` 
page contains an overview of the good habits and practices that can
make any Ubuntu system more secure. You may not want to apply every 
suggestion -- and the list is not exhaustive by any means -- but 

> each suggestion can provide an extra layer of security.

Reviewer 2: This is a definite improvement over the original paragraph, but feels like it could be improved further.  I took a shot -- how does this sound to you?

"Given Ubuntu's extensive customization options, typical of Linux distributions, this introduction cannot provide a comprehensive security hardening guide. However, you can enhance the security of nearly any Ubuntu system by implementing certain best practices and security-related packages. Our {ref}`security suggestions <security-suggestions>` page offers an overview of these beneficial habits and practices. While you may not choose to implement every suggestion -- and this list is not exhaustive -- each one can contribute an additional layer of security."

Reviewer: There are things I like about both re-writings. @bryceharrington yours is closer to the original spirit of the text, whereas @thornshadow99 yours uses much clearer/plainer language. I think a mixture of the two might be the way forward.

Author: I decided to use Bryce's paragraph with a few tweaks.

If your Ubuntu setup is more advanced or more complex than others, you may 
need to do more research into your security outlook. There are specific 
packages available for Ubuntu Servers that can provide additional security, and
we suggest some packages in the {ref}`advanced security <advanced-security>` 
section that you might want to investigate. Again, the list in this section
is not  intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.

To read the most thorough treatment of security in Ubuntu, go to the
[Ubuntu Security documentation](https://ubuntu.com/security).

When you are considering security for your Ubuntu system, you should
think about using Canonical's services--Ubuntu Pro, Expanded Security 
Maintenance, and Livepatch.

## Ubuntu Pro

If you want someone to provide security, compliance and support services,

> Canonical can provide them through the [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro)

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest sticking with the original phrasing for this first sentence, or leaving this paragraph unchanged.  I think the folks involved with this product were involved in the phrasing, and I think want a strong focus on Canonical's provisioning of it.

Author: change reverted.

subscription. Ubuntu Pro is available for free on up to 5 machines (for 
business or personal use). Although the compliance and certification 
features of Ubuntu Pro are likely to be of more interest to enterprise
users, the enhanced security coverage is great for anyone using Ubuntu.

All of the Ubuntu Pro features can be managed on the command line via the
[Ubuntu Pro Client](https://canonical-ubuntu-pro-client.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/)
utility, which has an API that provides easier automation to users.

### Vulnerability management

In a standard Ubuntu LTS release, security support is provided for packages in
the [Main repository](https://canonical-ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/explanation/archive/#components)
for 5 years. This service, known as Expanded Security Maintenance ({term}`ESM`), 

> is recommended for every Ubuntu system. Learn more [about ESM here](https://ubuntu.com/security/esm).

Reviewer: Generally, I agree with the reordering of the paragraph, but putting "Learn more about ESM here" is a call to action, which is usually better placed at the end. Otherwise, users are redirected outside of the page too early and miss whatever case we want to make. In this case, the "lead" is that ESM gives 10 years of support with Ubuntu Pro, and by putting a link in for people to follow before we mention that, we're "burying the lead". I'd suggest putting the link to ESM back in its original place at the end of the section.

Author: ok. done. I believe I followed your instructions. If not, feel free to tweak as desired.

When you are using Ubuntu Pro, the ESM level of support is expanded 

> to 10 years, and also includes patching for medium, high and critival severity

Reviewer 2: The above text reads great, good improvement.  Just one issue is 'critival' is misspelled.

Author: done.

[vulnerabilities](https://ubuntu.com/security/cves/about) for the Universe
repository.

### Kernel application hardening

We also recommend that you use Canonical's Livepatch service for 

> every Ubuntu system, which applies kernel patches for high and 

Author: done.

> critical severity vulnerabilities while the system is running without 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
critical severity vulnerabilities while the system is running, without 
```
It'll be great to include a comma. Without the comma, the phrase "without the need for an immediate reboot" sounds as if the system is actively running some software called Without the Need for an Immediate Reboot. The comma separates both ideas and improves readability.

All of the Ubuntu Pro features can be managed on the command line via the
[Ubuntu Pro Client](https://canonical-ubuntu-pro-client.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/)
utility, which has an API that provides easier automation to users.

### Vulnerability management

> In a standard Ubuntu LTS release, Expanded Security Management security support is provided 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a standard Ubuntu LTS release, security support is provided 
```

Reviewer: Expanded Security Management doesn't exist as a concept - with Ubuntu Pro we have to be *very* careful about wording to ensure we're not promising things that won't be delivered (and we need to be especially careful about the terminology we use).

for packages in the [Main repository](https://canonical-ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/explanation/archive/#components)

> for 5 years.  When you are using Ubuntu Pro, the ESM level of support is expanded 
> to 10 years, and also includes patching for medium, high and critical severity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for 5 years. With Ubuntu Pro, this support is expanded 
to 10 years, and also includes patching for medium, high and critical severity
```

[vulnerabilities](https://ubuntu.com/security/cves/about) for the Universe

> repository. ({term}`ESM`), is recommended for every Ubuntu system. Learn more 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repository. This service, known as Expanded Security Maintenance ({term}`ESM`), is recommended for every Ubuntu system. Learn more
```
